the Circle of Willis is an arterial
anastomosis visible on the ventral brain
jumping straight into the mnemonic it is
cake PB spa VP I don't have any clever
sentence to make up with that so just
maybe try to remember a peanut butter
cake a cake made of peanut butter gross
the Circle of Willis is made up of the
first six arteries and they're
symmetrical components it's organized
like this the main blood supply comes
from the internal carotid artery which
branches into the ophthalmic artery the
anterior choroidal artery and the middle
cerebral artery all three of which are
not part of the circle anterior to the
internal carotid artery on each side is
the anterior cerebral artery and the
anterior communicating artery connecting
them posterior to the internal carotid
are the two posterior communicating
artery x' connecting to the posterior
cerebral arteries finally the most
posterior artery of the circle is the
basilar artery the circle willis is cake
PB with the first and last letter of the
mnemonic in the center and with the rest
of the letters mirrored on the opposite
side further down there are some
important arteries that supply the brain
stem the second part of the mnemonic is
spa VP or the vice-president of a spa it
stands for the superior cerebellar
artery here and here the many Ponting
arteries and the anterior inferior
cerebellar artery X P and a I'll come
off of the basilar artery
next the two vertebral arteries supply
the basilar artery the posterior
inferior cerebellar artery comes off
from this vertebral artery this isn't
part of the mnemonic but the anterior
spinal artery comes off both vertebral
x' and one posterior spinal artery comes
off of each vertebral artery so let's
put it all together see a I see
P B then mirror the letters
now add the brainstem arteries s P a the
P and for extra credit a and P that's it
for the anatomy but for those interested
in the clinical correlation you should
know that the cerebellar arteries s a
and P supply the corresponding
cerebellar peduncles SCP mCP and ICP
with some blood from the superior
cerebellar artery helping out the middle
cerebellar peduncle as well next I'm
going to circle the arteries that supply
the medulla and then these arteries
supply the pons and the midbrain